# **Paxcan Popgen Repository**

This repository contains scripts and files used to analyze the population genomics of *Paxistima canbyi* using GBS data. It has four main folders named after the tools used to perform those specific analyses. These folders each contain customized scripts and files generated from these analyses. 

---

## **Contents**

### **1. [BCFTools_Filtering](./BCFTools_Filtering/)**
This folder holds custom shell scripts used in the analyses and handling of assembled sequence data in BCFTools. There are seven scripts in total in this folder. 

### **2. [VCFTools_Filtering](./VCFTools_Filtering/)**
This folder holds custom shell scripts used in the analyses and handling of assembled sequence data in VCFTools. There are two scripts in total in this folder. 

### **3. [PLINK_Filtering](./PLINK_Filtering/)**
This folder also holds custom shell scripts used in the analyses and handling of assembled sequence data in PLINK. There are ten scripts in total in this folder.

### **4. [R-based_Analyses](./R-based_Analyses)**
This folder holds files generated from all the R-based analyses and scripts used in handling and manipulating the genomic data in R using several R-based genomic tools. The different scripts found in this folder are described below:

**I. paxcan_snmf_analyses.Rmd:** This `.Rmd` performs sNMF clustering (a STRUCTURE-like approach) using the *LEA* package to infer the number of genetic clusters (K).

**II. paxcan_dapc_analyses.Rmd:** This `.Rmd` uses the **genlight** object to run a DAPC (discriminant analysis of principal components) using the *adegenet* package. It also includes PCA output and a compositional population-assignment plot.

**III. paxcan_clonality_analyses.Rmd:** This `.Rmd` uses the **genlight** object to run a clonality test on LD-pruned and non–LD-pruned data. 

**IV. paxcan_basic_stats_analyses.Rmd:** The workflow converts the `.vcf` into **genlight** and **hierfstat** objects, calculates F-statistics and heterozygosity metrics, performs an initial PCA, and runs a Bartlett test of variance on He and Ho. The file imports the `.vcf` file generated by iPyrad along with the `.strata` file assigning individuals to populations.

**V. paxcan_IBD_AMOVA_analyses.Rmd:** This `.Rmd` uses the *dartR* package to subset the **genlight** object and run Isolation-By-Distance (IBD) analyses and an Analyses of Molecular Variance (AMOVA). The workflow includes a Mantel test and an interactive PCA based on *adegenet*’s `glPCA`. *dartR* is also useful for filtering and dataset refinement.
